Absolute Radiance is the final boss of Godmaster in Hollow Knight. She is the perfect form of the Radiance and sits at the peak of the Pantheon of Hallownest.
@ Alubas are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are gentle, passive gliders who prefer to be near acid waters. It is said they are attracted to the resting places of beings of great power.
@ Amblooms are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are simple-minded crawling mushrooms who do not attack directly.
@ Armoured Squits are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are descendants of the Squit, bred exclusively for battle in the Colosseum of Fools.
@ Aspid Hatchlings are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are recently born Aspids who instinctively swarm around threats.
@ Aspid Hunters are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are the males of the Aspid species. Aspid Hunters usually hunt in packs and spit corrosive liquid at prey from a distance. A more powerful variant called Primal Aspids can be found in Kingdom's Edge.
@ Aspid Mothers are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are the females of the Aspid species. Carrying their eggs inside their bodies, they can hatch and birth their young to attack threats.
@ Baldurs are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are small, crawling creatures who defend themselves by rolling into a ball. A stronger variant called the Sharp Baldur is bred to fight in the Colosseum of Fools.
@ Battle Obbles are enemies in Hollow Knight. These bulbous creatures were raised in the Colosseum of Fools for combat. The Obble is their wild relative.
@ Belflies are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are quick, highly volatile flying creatures who dive at prey with no sense of self-preservation.
@ Bluggsacs are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are placid clusters of fluid sacs which occasionally produce a foul-smelling egg.
@ Booflies are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are hovering, docile bugs who peacefully float around in Kingdom's Edge.
@ Broken Vessel is one of the main bosses in Hollow Knight. It blocks the way to the Monarch Wings. Lost Kin is its dream variant.
@ The Brooding Mawlek is a hidden boss in Hollow Knight as well as a Colosseum of Fools mini-boss.
@ The Nailmaster Brothers Oro & Mato are a dual quest boss in Hollow Knight introduced in Godmaster. They sit at the top of the Pantheon of the Master in Godhome.
@ Carver Hatchers are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are flying creatures who spawn Dirtcarvers when prey is nearby.
@ Charged Lumaflies are enemies in Hollow Knight. They cluster together in small swarms, building up static charges.
@ The Collector is a hidden boss in Hollow Knight. Defeating it grants the Collector's Map.
@ Corpse Creepers are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are parasites which hide inside husks, controlling their host's body when the husk is defeated.
@ Cowardly Husks are enemies in Hollow Knight. These reanimated bugs used to belong to Hallownest's high society, and their cowardly nature still persists after death.
@ Crawlids are enemies in Hollow Knight. They scurry around on the ground in search of food. It is the first enemy encountered in the game and is very easy to deal with.
@ Crystal Crawlers are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are creatures who use crystal lenses to focus beams of searing light from their backs.
@ The Crystal Guardian is an optional boss in Hollow Knight. The Enraged Guardian is its second, stronger and faster form. Both forms have to be beaten to unlock its Journal entry.
@ Crystal Hunters are enemies in Hollow Knight. They use their crystalline growths to fire crystals at intruders.
@ Crystallised Husks are enemies in Hollow Knight. They were miners in Crystal Peak who died amongst the crystals and were reanimated by the Infection. The crystals which they grew within their husks are used to fire beams of light from their arms.
@ Death Loodles are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are Loodles who wear a helmet and were taught to fight in the Colosseum of Fools.
@ Deephunters are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are many-legged creatures who spit burning venom at intruders.
@ Deeplings are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are infants who creep around in the shadows, learning the layout of their home.
@ Dirtcarvers are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are crawling predators who dig small tunnels and burst out of them to surprise prey.
@ The Dung Defender is one of the main bosses in Hollow Knight. This champion of the past defends the access to Isma's Grove. The Hidden Dreams content White Defender is his dream variant.
@ Durandas are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are large flying creatures who are protected by their spikey shell, largely ignoring outsiders.
@ Durandoos are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are large, armour-shelled bugs who frequent shallow pools of acidic water.
@ Elder Baldurs are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are adult Baldurs with thick armour plating who block pathways. The ones guarding Ancestral Mound and the entrance to Greenpath are not optional and must be defeated in order to progress through the game.
@ Elder Hu was a travelling sage who sought to purify the borderlands of Hallownest from the Infection. He reached the Mantis Village, but his own Infected mind made him see the Mantis Lords and the Tribe as afflicted by the plague. The Mantises killed him after he attacked them. A memorial was erected in his name above the gates to the City of Tears, his tunic and bead necklace resting on top of it.
@ The Enraged Guardian is the second form of the Crystal Guardian and an optional boss in Hollow Knight. It is faster and tougher than its original form and deals twice the amount of damage with its attacks. Both forms have to be beaten to unlock its Journal entry.
@ Entombed Husks are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are decaying mummified corpses which became enraged by the Infection. Hiding in the darkness, they wait for creatures to come close to them.
@ Failed Champion is a hidden boss in Hollow Knight. It is the Dream variant of the False Knight, faster and tougher than its physical counterpart.
@ False Knight is a Maggot wearing the armour of Hegemol, one of the Five Great Knights of Hallownest. This weak creature wanted to find means to protect his siblings who live in an abandoned storeroom in the middle of the Forgotten Crossroads. When he discovered Hegemol sleeping in his armoured shell, he took it for himself, hoping for the great strength that wearing the armour seemed to promise. Even though madness did not drive him to do this, False Knight eventually fell to the Infection's control.
@ Fluke Larvae are tiny, immobile Flukes that line the floor and ceiling of certain rooms in the Royal Waterways. Although not having their own Hunter's Journal entry and thus not being official enemies, they nearly exactly resemble the nature of Maskflies - save for the ability to move.
@ Flukefeys are enemies in Hollow Knight. The youngest of the Flukes, these flying creatures use their sharp teeth to latch onto any living thing.
@ Flukemarm is the mother of all Flukes infesting the Royal Waterways. Her body is used as a nest for young Flukefeys. Like her children, she was Infected and made hostile, although her condition as a breeder prevents her from leaving her cave.
@ Flukemons are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are earthbound Flukes who split into two living halves after being defeated.
@ Flukemungas are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are bloated Flukes who excrete a grease that helps them slide around the tunnels where they live.
@ Follies are enemies in Hollow Knight. They used to be scholars of the Soul Sanctum, but their bodies became inflated after the Sanctum's failed Soul experiments.
@ Fool Eaters are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are large carnivorous plants that clap shut when detecting prey nearby.
@ Fungified Husks are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are deceased citizens of Hallownest whose corpses were filled with and reanimated by Infected spores.
@ Funglings are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are gas-filled balloon creatures who ignore the world around them. Funglings are juveniles, becoming Fungoons upon reaching adulthood.
@ Fungoons are enemies in Hollow Knight. The adult form of the Funglings, these fungal balloon creatures attack by spitting streams of noxious gas.
@ Furious Vengeflies are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are enormous Vengeflies whose bodies were distorted by continued Infection. The blisters around their wings appear to give them improved flight.
@ Galien was a brave and undefeated warrior who claimed to be the strongest in Hallownest and desired to prove his valour to the Pale King as a Knight. He travelled to Deepnest in order to test his strength, but eventually found death instead. His husk lies in a cave filled with unusually large glowing mushrooms and a Lifeblood Cocoon, below the Failed Tramway.
@ Garpedes are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are thickly armoured creatures who burrow through the rocky tunnels of Deepnest.
@ Glimbacks are enemies in Hollow Knight. They used to be beasts of burden who were forced to carry around carts and machines.
@ Gluttonous Husks are enemies in Hollow Knight. In life, these upper-class bugs consumed so much food that they took on a grotesque shape. Reanimated after death, they now use their body to attack.
@ Goams are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are worm-like, thickly armoured creatures who burrowed tunnels through the walls of the caverns.
@ God Tamer is a veteran warrior of the Colosseum of Fools, taking the mantle of boss of the last and most brutal trial. She compensates for her small stature with the strength of her tamed Beast, alongside which she fights. They both present signs of the Infection.
@ Gorb the Great Mind was a mystic creature with a distended brain who claimed to be all-knowing. They goaded others to revere their mind and ascend with them to a different plane of existence. Their remains were buried on a hill atop the Howling Cliffs, with a tombstone carved in their image.
@ The Gorgeous Husk is an enemy in Hollow Knight. Its body is covered in a shining metal, and it still retains the instinct to collect Geo even after death.
@ Great Hoppers are enemies in Hollow Knight. The adult form of the Hopper, these large creatures attempt to crush prey beneath their bodies.
@ Great Husk Sentries are enemies in Hollow Knight. They were elite city guards before dying, patrolling sensitive areas in the City of Tears. Wielding a greatnail and shell, they are still a threat after being reanimated.
@ Great Nailsage Sly is a quest boss in Hollow Knight introduced in Godmaster. He sits at the top of the Pantheon of the Sage in Godhome.
@ Grey Prince Zote is a hidden boss in Hollow Knight. He is the stronger Dream variant of Zote the Mighty, fueled by Bretta's delusions of him.
@ Grimm is the master of the Grimm Troupe, a mysterious travelling circus. In truth, Grimm and his Troupe travel from the Nightmare Realm to wherever the Nightmare Lantern has been lit by acolytes. They gather Nightmare Flames from ruined lands to fuel the sinister being enslaving the Troupe, the Nightmare's Heart. Their ritual to feed the Nightmare's Heart consists of feeding first a Grimmchild with Nightmare Flames. They then slay the Nightmare King for it to be reborn anew through the Grimmchild.[4]
@ Grimmkin Masters are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are powerful members of the Grimm Troupe who relinquish the flame they gathered within their torches to somebody who is worthy.
@ Grimmkin Nightmares are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are terrifying members of the Grimm Troupe who relinquish the flame they gathered within their torches to somebody who is worthy.
@ Grimmkin Novices are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are young members of the Grimm Troupe who relinquish the flame they gathered within their torches to somebody who is worthy.
@ Grub Mimics are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are creatures who mimic the form of a harmless Grub to lure prey.
@ Gruz mother is an optional mini-boss in Hollow Knight. She is also a dual Colosseum of Fools boss. Unlocking her Journal entry requires beating 3 Gruz Mothers.
@ Gruzzers are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are round bugs with small wings and a shrivelled proboscis that pay little attention to their surroundings.
@ Gulkas are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are plant-like beings who spit venom-filled spikey balls at intruders. The venom has certain enjoyable effects when it is consumed.
@ Heavy Fools are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are bulky warriors who fight for their lives in the Colosseum of Fools.
@ Heavy Sentries are enemies in Hollow Knight. Reanimated by the Infection, these walking corpses wield a greatnail, guarding the City of Tears even in death.
@ Hive Guardians are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are huge bees whose only instinct is to guard the Hive by charging at intruders.
@ Hive Knight is the most valiant and skilled knight of the Hive; he is flightless and bound to protect Hive Queen Vespa by the Bees' hive mind. Although the Infection spread to the Hive after the queen died, Hive Knight still protects her, hoping she will one day wake up and revive the Hive.
@ Hive Soldiers are enemies in Hollow Knight. These bee warriors spin their compound stingers to attack intruders.
@ Hivelings are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are little bee warriors who carry out simple tasks in and around the Hive.
@ The Hollow Knight is the Vessel chosen by the Pale King to seal away the Radiance and save Hallownest from the Infection. Like their siblings, they are the child of the King and Queen of Hallownest, birthed in the Abyss to be infused with the power of the Void. This birth condition was also supposed to leave them without a mind, will, and voice, to prevent the Radiance from influencing them. However, their purity was misjudged, tarnished by an idea instilled, a bond with the Pale King who raised them. The young Hollow Knight being led out of the Abyss. Regardless of their impurity, the Hollow Knight was trained and raised, eventually becoming a fully grown Vessel. The Radiance was sealed within them, and they were chained within the Temple of the Black Egg where they were expected to contain the Infection for eternity. However, because of the aforementioned impurities, the Radiance could still exert influence. It ultimately resulted in the resurgence of the Infection and the Kingdom falling into ruin.
@ Hoppers are enemies in Hollow Knight. These agile creatures are the juvenile form of the Great Hoppers. They use their proboscis to drain fluids from prey.
@ Hopping Zotelings are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are the products of Bretta's imagination.
@ Hornet Protector is the first form of Hornet as a boss in Hollow Knight. She confronts the Knight in Greenpath to impede their quest, but underestimates her opponent and does not deploy her full strength. She must be defeated twice to unlock her Journal entry, but this can be either by defeating both forms or by defeating her Protector form once in Greenpath and once in Godmaster content Godhome.
@ Hornet Sentinel is the second form of Hornet as a boss in Hollow Knight. She challenges the Knight at the entrance to the Cast-Off Shell in Kingdom's Edge to test their resolve and strength in saving Hallownest. She deploys this time her full strength and tools. She must be defeated twice to unlock her Journal entry, but this can be either by defeating both forms or by defeating her Protector form once in Greenpath and once in Godmaster content Godhome.
@ The Hunter is an NPC in Hollow Knight. when he was young, he and his siblings used to hunt each other in their nest. Ever since then, he hunts alone without any companion or partner. The Hunter tries to kill any living being he can find, which he does only for his own sake, believing this to be the nature of the Hunt. In addition to this, he attempts to eat certain creatures, even Infected ones, though he does not like the taste of those. He looks down on the bugs of the kingdom of Hallownest, regarding them as weak and pathetic, with their kingdom being destined for ruin. Upon completion of his quest, the Hunter bides his time before his next hunt begins, as he believes that a true Hunter has no home or kingdom.
@ Husk Bullies are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are walking corpses who attack anyone they can find who has not been Infected.
@ Husk Dandies are enemies in Hollow Knight. Before dying and being reanimated by the Infection, these weak bugs used to be members of Hallownest's upper class.
@ Husk Guards are enemies in Hollow Knight. In life, these bugs used to be guards of the Forgotten Crossroads. Reanimated after death, they still instinctually guard their former posts.
@ Husk Hives are enemies in Hollow Knight. These husks have merged their bodies with small hives, carrying Hivelings around who protect them.
@ Husk Hornheads are enemies in Hollow Knight. They use their horn to attack any creatures not stricken by the Infection.
@ Husk Miners are enemies in Hollow Knight. Even after being overcome by the Infection, these reanimated corpses continue to mine the crystals in Crystal Peak.
@ Husk Sentries are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are the reanimated corpses of Hallownest sentries, still standing guard in and around the capital.
@ Husk Warriors are enemies in Hollow Knight. Unlike most other husks of their size, these reanimated corpses use a nail and shell when fighting.
@ Hwurmps are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are tiny creatures who have powerful, expandable lungs which allow them to swell up to an enormous size.
@ Infected Balloons are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are single cells of Infection consisting of pus and light gasses.
@ Kingsmoulds are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are Void constructs who were made by the Pale King to serve as guards in and around the White Palace.
@ Lance Sentries are enemies in Hollow Knight. Guarding the City of Tears, these winged sentries of Hallownest are equipped with a nail-lance to pursue trespassers.
@ Leaping Husks are enemies in Hollow Knight. These reanimated corpses used to be citizens of the kingdom of Hallownest. They attack creatures who are not Infected by leaping at them.
@ Lesser Mawleks are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are fast-moving creatures with many teeth and sharp foreclaws who spit acid at targets.
@ Lifeseeds are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are small seeds which are often found huddled together in Lifeblood Cocoons. Lifeseeds contain Lifeblood, a blue liquid which invigorates the body when it is consumed.
@ Lightseeds are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are small creatures who have swollen greatly in size due to Infection.
@ Little Weavers are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are small Weavers who were part of the spider tribe of Deepnest.
@ Loodles are enemies in Hollow Knight. These leaping bugs roam the wilds beside the Queen's Gardens in packs, bouncing around unpredictably. A stronger variant called Death Loodle are taught to kill in the Colosseum of Fools.
@ Lost Kin is a hidden boss in Hollow Knight. It is the Dream variant of the Broken Vessel, faster and tougher than its physical counterpart.
@ Maggots are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are helpless and weak creatures who were forced to do menial labour.
@ The Mantis Lords are three sisters who lead the Mantis Tribe deep within the Fungal Wastes. They managed to resist the Infection throughout Hallownest despite the exile of their brother and his followers, who chose to accept the Infection willingly. The Mantis Lords have kept the beasts of Deepnest confined to their territory, killing those who would intrude upon the village. This duty was part of a truce with the Kingdom, maintained even as it fell to ruins. Yet the Mantis Lords, like the rest of their Tribe, remain proud warriors. They grant passage into Deepnest to any who would defeat them in a fair challenge, in an improvised arena in their throne room.
@ Mantis Petras are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are flying Infected Mantises of the Mantis Tribe who followed the Traitor Lord and were exiled from their village.
@ Mantis Traitors are enemies in Hollow Knight. Former members of the Mantis Tribe who follow the Traitor Lord, these Mantises were cast out of their village and driven mad by the Infection.
@ Mantis Warriors are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are adult members of the Mantis Tribe who guard the tribe and their leaders. Like all other Mantises in the Mantis Village, they resist the Infection.
@ Mantis Youths are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are young children of the Mantis Tribe, losing their ability to fly when becoming adults.
@ Markoth is a Warrior Dream boss in Hollow Knight. Markoth was the only moth to carry a weapon besides Thistlewind. He went to Kingdom's Edge to seclude himself and meditate, hoping to uncover a truth long forgotten. Markoth fought any who would threaten him, regardless of their reasons. He eventually died, his remains never to be found, in a lone cave of Kingdom's Edge.
@ Marmu is a Warrior Dream boss in Hollow Knight. Marmu was the innocent-minded yet strong protector of the Queen's Gardens. The Queen promised to teach her how to fly upon her return to the verdant retreat. Marmu passed away before that day and a totem in her memory was placed upon her grave in the gardens' wilds.
@ Maskflies are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are docile flying creatures who travel in flocks, fleeing from anything they perceive as a threat.
@ The Massive Moss Charger is an optional mini-boss in Hollow Knight. It lies off the Pilgrim's Way in Greenpath.
@ Mawlurks are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are overgrown Mawleks who lost their ability to move and now use their acidic spit to dissolve prey.
@ Menderbug is an enemy in Hollow Knight. He can be found repairing the sign at the bottom of the well in the Forgotten Crossroads.
@ Mistakes are enemies in Hollow Knight. Former scholars of the Soul Sanctum, these bugs' bodies were deformed by the Sanctum's experiments with Soul.
@ Moss Chargers are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are small, timid creatures who try to scare off predators by covering themselves in moss.
@ Moss Knights are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are part of the Mosskin Tribe. Moss Knights protect Greenpath with their Nail and Shell, hiding as bush-like mounds to ambush invaders.
@ Mosscreeps are enemies in Hollow Knight. They camouflage themselves with leaves and hide from danger amongst the undergrowth.
@ Mossflies are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are flying creatures who appear to be cousins of the Mosscreep, similarly covering themselves in leaves.
@ Mosskin are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are ancient denizens of Greenpath who were created by Unn from her dream. Since Unn hid herself away, the Mosskin's leaves started wilting and they became Infected.
@ Mossy Vagabonds are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are Mosskin who forgot about Unn's call and instead started worshipping the Radiance, swayed by the Moss Prophet.
@ Myla is an NPC in Hollow Knight. She is a happy little miner mining for treasure near the entrance to Crystal Peak. While searching for something valuable hidden deeper within the crystals, she enjoys singing and wants to come up with some songs of her own. Myla hears the crystals singing and whispering, hoping to find them and hear what they are saying. Eventually, Myla becomes Infected, her cheerful song changing. The voice of the Radiance appears in her mind, commanding her to kill the Knight. In the end, the Infection overtakes her, making her become hostile. However, the song she always sang remains in her thoughts.
@ Nightmare King Grimm is the optional final boss of The Grimm Troupe in Hollow Knight. He is the Dream form of Troupe Master Grimm. Unlocking his Journal entry requires defeating him in Dirtmouth. While he can be fought in the Godmaster content Pantheon of Hallownest and the Godmaster content Hall of Gods, defeating him there does not unlock his Journal entry. This means that his entry can never be obtained after banishment.
@ No Eyes is a Warrior Dream boss in Hollow Knight. No Eyes was a warrior of Hallownest who fell to the Infection. She could not sleep knowing the dreams would infect her mind with the light. To protect herself and other bugs, she stripped out both their eyes and her own before succumbing. She was laid to rest in the Stone Sanctuary, a place in complete darkness, and a carved statue was placed upon her grave.
@ Nosk is a hidden boss in Hollow Knight. Its defeat is rewarded by one of the rare Pale Ores. Godmaster content Winged Nosk is its flying form. Nosk is a mysterious, shape-shifting, Infected beast hunting throughout Deepnest. It can mimic the shape of faces it finds in the memories of bugs, usually loved or departed ones, and can contort its body to assume a smaller frame. It hangs its prey, including Dirtcarvers, a Stalking Devout, and various Vessels, from the ceiling of its lair at the bottom of Deepnest.
@ Obbles are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are slow, flying bugs who attack by spewing acidic venom. A stronger variant called the Battle Obble is bred to fight in the Colosseum of Fools. Oblobbles are the larger cousins of the Obble.
@ The Oblobbles are a dual boss in Hollow Knight. They sit at the top of the Trial of the Conqueror. Two separate fights against them are required to unlock their Journal entry, either through replaying the trial or battling them in Godmaster content Godhome.
@ Oomas are enemies in Hollow Knight. They have a pulsing orange core which can propel itself through the air if the outer shell is damaged. Monomon the Teacher has an unknown connection to them.
@ Paintmaster Sheo is a quest boss in Hollow Knight, introduced in Godmaster. He sits at the top of the Pantheon of the Artist in Godhome.
@ Pale Lurker is an enemy in Hollow Knight. She is an uninfected former champion of the Colosseum of Fools who was drawn away by strange obsessions, eventually becoming insane.
@ Pilflips are enemies in Hollow Knight. They have antenna-like appendages on their back which function as limbs when they are flipped over.
@ Primal Aspids are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are the ancestral form of the Aspids, once thought to be extinct. The most dangerous in packs, these flying hunters attack by spraying venom at prey.
@ The Pure Vessel is a quest boss in Hollow Knight introduced in Godmaster. They are the prime version of the Hollow Knight, unaffected by the Infection. They sit at the top of the Pantheon of the Knight.
@ The Radiance is the secret final boss of Hollow Knight. Godmaster content Absolute Radiance is her perfect form. The Radiance is a higher being of light similar to Essence, and as such, opposed to the Void, her ancient enemy. The Moth Tribe is born from her light and in return revered her.
@ Revek is a spirit in Hollow Knight. He is the protector of the Spirits' Glade. He warns the Knight that they will face consequences if they harm any of the Glade's spirit inhabitants.
@ Royal Retainers are enemies in Hollow Knight. These bugs were the most loyal servants of the Pale King, but a number of them died after the King disappeared. They can still be found in the White Palace in the Dream Realm where they wait for the King.
@ The Shade is an enemy in Hollow Knight. It is the Void within the Knight which is let loose when the Knight's shell breaks.
@ Shadow Creepers are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are possibly more primal relatives of the Crawlids, found only in deep, dark places.
@ Shardmites are enemies in Hollow Knight. Formerly used in Crystal Peak's mining operations, these creatures now wander around on walls, feeding on crystal dust.
@ Sharp Baldurs are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are juvenile Baldurs with a plated shell who were bred to fight in the Colosseum of Fools.
@ Shielded Fools are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are shielded combatants who fight for glory in the Colosseum of Fools.
@ Shrumal Ogres are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are huge, beastly fungal creatures who have a heavily armoured cap.
@ Shrumal Warriors are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are fierce fungal creatures who protect their young from intruders, using their flexible caps to roll around.
@ Shrumelings are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are defenceless young fungal creatures who spend most of their time in the ground, blindly running away when threatened.
@ Siblings are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are the Shades inside Vessels which were let loose after their shells broke in the Abyss.
@ The Sisters of Battle are a quest boss in Hollow Knight introduced in Godmaster. First encountered in the Pantheon of Hallownest, they are a form of the Mantis Lords where all three sisters battle together instead of separately.
@ Slobbering Husks are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are husks that were completely consumed by Infection, overfilling with noxious corrosive liquid.
@ Soul Master is a main boss in Hollow Knight. Defeating him grants the Desolate Dive Spell. Soul Master is the leader of the Soul Sanctum of Hallownest, which searched for ways to expand the minds of bugs and attain pure focus. When the Infection started, he came to the conclusion that Soul, the energy animating bugs and beasts alike, was the solution to cure their mind of this plague. He refused to listen to the Pale King opposing his work, and failed to realise that his own Infected mind was influencing him. Soul Master hoarded Soul and consumed it, eventually gaining new Soul powers. He had Soul Totems gathered in the Sanctum and drained many unfortunate bugs of their vital energy. Unlike the rest of the Kingdom's inhabitants, he and his followers were able to survive the Infection. However, he was driven to obsession in his quest for immortality, and lost his sanity while trying to get closer to the light that was guiding him in his mind.
@ Soul Twisters are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are scholars of the Soul Sanctum who have learnt how to harness the power of SOUL, which they twist into spells and use to teleport.
@ The Soul Tyrant is a hidden boss in Hollow Knight. It is the dream variant of the Soul Master, faster and tougher than its physical counterpart.
@ The Soul Warrior is a recurring mini-boss with varying difficulty in Hollow Knight. It appears twice in the Colosseum of Fools as a mini-boss. Unlocking its Journal entry requires defeating it twice. Soul Warriors are scholars who enhanced their combat abilities with stolen Soul. Unlike the other scholars in the sanctum, they seem to have a very hazy grasp of their own memories and the origins of their powers.
@ Spiny Husks are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are husks whose bodies are overgrown with thorny vegetation who attack by firing sharp poisonous spines.
@ Sporgs are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are modified fungal growths that spit explosive spores.
@ Squits are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are flying creatures who charge at prey with their razor-sharp proboscis. A stronger variant called Armoured Squit is bred to fight in the Colosseum of Fools.
@ Stalking Devouts are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are cloaked worshippers of Herrah the Beast who use their foreclaws to shield their head.
@ Sturdy Fools are enemies in Hollow Knight. These warriors fight in the Colosseum of Fools using their crescent-shaped blades.
@ Tiktiks are enemies in Hollow Knight. They use their sharp claws to crawl on floors and ceilings near the surface of the kingdom.
@ Tiso is an adventurer who seeks the Colosseum of Fools for the sake of a challenge. He fights using his shield, which he claims conceals a "deadly surprise." He is arrogant, thinking of himself as the ultimate warrior and showing nothing but contempt for the weak. He almost pays no notice to the Knight until later on, and even then he finds them beneath him. Despite his bravado, he is never actually fought, as he dies off-screen in the Colosseum of Fools, his body later found dumped by the acid pits at the bottom of Kingdom's Edge with the other slain warriors.
@ The Traitor Lord is a main boss in Hollow Knight. He blocks the path to the White Lady in the Queen's Gardens. The Traitor Lord was one of the leaders of the Mantis Tribe along with his sisters, and particularly resented the kingdom of Hallownest. Similarly, he disapproved of the relationship of his daughter with the Grey Mourner due to the Grey Mourner being an outsider. At some point, he and his followers embraced the Infection to become stronger and were cast out from the Mantis Village. They eventually found their way to and settled in the Queen's Gardens. They sought to take the gardens for themselves and chase the White Lady out of her refuge but were pushed back by her protector, the knight Dryya. Despite this failure, the Traitor Lord and the other Mantis outcasts still remained in the gardens, now guided only by a basic territorial and violent instinct.
@ Uomas are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are small gelatinous creatures whose static-charged outer shells give an electric shock on contact. The Uomas are connected in some way to Monomon the Teacher.
@ Uumuu is a main boss in Hollow Knight. It guards Monomon the Teacher, one of the Dreamers. Uumuu is an intelligent yet Infected being similar to the Uomas and Oomas infesting Fog Canyon. It defends Monomon's chamber at the heart of the Teacher's Archives.
@ Vengeflies are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are flying predators who inhabit many areas in Hallownest, although the Vengefly King is native to Greenpath.
@ The Vengefly King is an optional mini-boss in Hollow Knight as well as a Colosseum of Fools mini-boss. Unlocking its Journal entry requires defeating 2 Vengefly Kings.
@ Violent Husks are enemies in Hollow Knight. Gone mad due to massive, advanced Infection, these husks contain a volatile infectious fluid which explodes when they charge into enemies or objects.
@ Void Tendrils are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are fragments of Void shaped like tendrils which lash out at intruders to push them away or pull them under.
@ Volatile Gruzzers are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are enlarged Gruzzers who still float around carelessly, their bodies swollen and dripping with Infection.
@ Volatile Mosskin are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are Mosskin who became swollen with Infection.
@ Volatile Zotelings are enemies in Hollow Knight. Figments of Bretta's mind, they quickly explode after coming into existence.
@ Volt Twisters are enemies in Hollow Knight. They were scholars of Soul Sanctum who attack using bursts of electricity. They spend their entire lives fighting in the Colosseum of Fools or meditating alone.
@ Wandering Husks are enemies in Hollow Knight. Once citizens of Hallownest, these reanimated corpses now wander the roads of the kingdom.
@ The Watcher Knights are a single main boss in Hollow Knight. They guard Lurien the Watcher, one of the three Dreamers. Their Journal entry is unlocked at the end of the fight, regardless of how many there were. The Watcher Knights used to defend the entrance to the Watcher's Spire and Lurien's dormant body. They eventually died while standing guard, leaving their shells behind.
@ The White Defender is a hidden boss in Hollow Knight introduced in the Hidden Dreams update. He is the Dream form of the Dung Defender, at the peak of his past glory.
@ Winged Fools are enemies in Hollow Knight. These winged warriors fight other bugs to the death in the Colosseum of Fools.
@ Winged Nosk is a quest boss in Hollow Knight introduced in Godmaster. It is the flying form of Nosk, assuming Hornet's shape at first instead of the Knight's. It can be encountered in the Pantheon of Hallownest.
@ Winged Sentries are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are highly-trained flying sentries of Hallownest, patrolling the City of Tears and the areas around it.
@ Winged Zotelings are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are flying figments of Bretta's obsessed mind.
@ Wingmoulds are enemies in Hollow Knight. They are Void constructs made by the Pale King for an unknown purpose.
@ Xero is a Warrior Dream boss in Hollow Knight. Xero was a warrior of Hallownest who believed that strength would always allow him a bright future. When his mind was infected, he hoped to fight against the plague with violence. Fueled by the same hope, he turned against the Pale King, for which he was executed. Xero was buried in the Resting Grounds, his tomb a reminder to any who would betray the King. When his spirit awoke, he still could not see the wrongness of his actions and instead believed his demise was the result of a doomed fate.
@ Zote the Mighty is an NPC in Hollow Knight. Zote is a traveller from outside Hallownest who came to the Kingdom to fulfill a promise. This is ultimately revealed to be a promise of glory for himself. He named his nail "Life Ender" because names supposedly have power. Unfortunately, because it is made of shellwood, it cannot deal damage. While he claims to be the strongest warrior in the land, he is found trapped by weak enemies or claiming the glory of another bug's deeds. He regards the Knight as beneath him and accuses them of constantly getting in his way.